+++
title = "C programming"
author = ["Ben Mezger"]
date = 2020-05-31T12:33:00-03:00
slug = "c-programming"
type = "posts"
draft = false
bookCollapseSection = true
+++

Tags
: [Computer Science]({{< relref "2020-05-31--15-29-21Z--computer_science" >}}) [Programming]({{< relref "2020-05-31--15-33-23Z--programming" >}})

## C project architecture guidelines {#c-project-architecture-guidelines}

### Functions exposed in the header are like public methods {#functions-exposed-in-the-header-are-like-public-methods}

Think of each module like a class. The functions you expose in the
header are like public methods. Only put a function in the header if it
part of the module's needed interface.

### Avoiding circular module dependencies {#avoiding-circular-module-dependencies}

Avoid circular module dependencies. Module A and module B should
not call each other. You can refactor something into a module C to avoid
that.

### Operatins within the same module should have a `create` and `delete` function interface {#operatins-within-the-same-module-should-have-a-create-and-delete-function-interface}

Again, following the C++ pattern, if you have a module that can
perform the same operations on different instances of data, have a
create and delete function in your interface that will return a pointer
to struct that is passed back to other functions. But for the sake of
encapsulation, return a void pointer in the public interface and cast to
your struct inside of the module.

### Avoid module scope variables {#avoid-module-scope-variables}

Avoid module-scope variables -- the previously described pattern
will usually do what you need. But if you really need module-scope
variables, group them under a struct stored in a single module-scope
variable called "m" or something consistent. Then in your code whenever
you see "m.variable" you will know at a glance it is one of the
module-scope structs.

### Define HEADER name to avoid double including and/or header problems {#define-header-name-to-avoid-double-including-and-or-header-problems}

To avoid header trouble, put `#ifndef MY_HEADER_H` `#define MY_HEADER_H`
declaration that protects against double including. The header .h file for your
module, should only contain `#includes` needed FOR THAT HEADER FILE. The module
`.c` file can have more includes needed for the compiling the module, but don't
add those includes into the module header file. This will save you from a lot of
namespace conflicts and order-of-include problems.
