+++
title = "Mental models"
author = ["Ben Mezger"]
date = 2020-05-31T01:30:00-03:00
slug = "mental-models"
type = "posts"
draft = false
bookCollapseSection = true
+++

### Backlinks {#backlinks}

- [Socratic questioning]({{< relref "2020-05-31--13-16-44Z--socratic_questioning" >}})
- [Thinking methods]({{< relref "2020-05-31--04-19-08Z--thinking_methods" >}})
- [The great mental models: General thinking concepts]({{< relref "2020-05-30--23-03-02Z--the_great_mental_models_general_thinking_concepts" >}})

tags
: [Thinking methods]({{< relref "2020-05-31--04-19-08Z--thinking_methods" >}}) [Mindset]({{< relref "2020-05-31--04-24-34Z--mindset" >}}) [Learning]({{< relref "2020-05-31--04-23-42Z--learning" >}})

> « You only think you know, as a matter of fact. And most of your actions are
> based on incomplete knowledge and you really don’t know what it is all about, or
> what the purpose of the world is, or know a great deal of other things. It is
> possible to live and not know. »
>
> -- Richard Feynman
>
> Parrish, Shane. The Great Mental Models Volume 1: General Thinking Concepts (p.
> 12). Latticework Publishing Inc.. Kindle Edition.

Mental models allows us to have a better understanding of the world around us,
they shape on how we think and solve problems, shape opportunities and
decisions, and allows us to simplify complex problems. Principles of field
subjects can be mixed together to understand underlying key issues, points and
ideas.

Mental models allows structure of information to be broken into pieces and link
related information together. By applying mental models, we can move towards
understanding reality.

Problems can be broken into substantive parts so interconnections can be
revealed.

Most actions are based with incomplete knowledge of the subject, so mental
models allows us to view what we know and what are we missing.

Related books:

| Related books                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Mindset]({{< relref "2020-05-31--04-24-34Z--mindset" >}})                                                                                      |
| [The great mental models: General thinking concepts]({{< relref "2020-05-30--23-03-02Z--the_great_mental_models_general_thinking_concepts" >}}) |
| [Nonviolent communication: A language for life]({{< relref "2020-05-30--23-04-26Z--nonviolent_communication_a_language_for_life" >}})           |

## Blind spots {#blind-spots}

- The more we remove blind spots around situations, the more we can interact and
  move closer to understanding reality
- We think better when we remove blind spots

## Broad latticework of mental models {#broad-latticework-of-mental-models}

- Chunks of knowledge from different disciplines
- Can be simplified
- Allows better understanding of the world
- Helps identifying information that is relevant to the current situation

## Bottom-up perspective {#bottom-up-perspective}

- Expose what we believe to the casual relationships
- Exposes how they will govern the situation both now and in the future

## Key points on mental models {#key-points-on-mental-models}

- How we understand the world
- They shape on how we think and solve problems
- Shape opportunities and decisions
- How we simplify complexity
- Principles of subjects can be mixed together to understand underlying and key
  issues/points/ideas
- Representation on how something works
  - Representation on how something works
  - Link related information to different structures
- Allows moving towards understanding reality
- Helps finding a process to help us work through problems from multiple
  dimensions and perspectives
- Finding the right solution for the right problem

## Problem thinking {#problem-thinking}

- Break it down into substantive parts so the interconnection reveals them-self
- [Key points on mental models](#key-points-on-mental-models)
