+++
title = "Coding Theory"
author = ["Ben Mezger"]
date = 2020-05-31T16:10:00-03:00
slug = "c-coding-theory"
type = "posts"
draft = false
bookCollapseSection = true
+++

tags
: [Information Theory]({{< relref "2020-05-30--19-14-46Z--information_theory" >}}) [Computer Science]({{< relref "2020-05-31--15-29-21Z--computer_science" >}}) [Programming]({{< relref "2020-05-31--15-33-23Z--programming" >}})

Related video: <https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/informationtheory/info-theory/v/source-encoding-language-of-coins-4-9>


## Source encoding {#source-encoding}

Say Alice and Bob want to communicate with each other over some cable. They both
live far from each other, so they decided to run a wire between both of their
houses. Their communication has been working fine until winter. When winter
arrived, lots wind **noise** started to happen and they are unable to communicate
with each other over their cable communication system. With the wind, it becomes
impossible to hear the **signal** over the noise.

Bob then **encodes** the message using plucks instead of voice. Plucks generate a
much higher noise, so it's much better to hear on the other side, however, how
can Bob encode the message as plucks?


### Discrete source {#discrete-source}

The discrete source is a selection of a finite number of symbols. Say we have 2
common dice (6 possible numbers in each dice), totaling 12 possible numbers.

| Dice A | Dice B |
|--------|--------|
| 1      | 1      |
| 2      | 2      |
| 3      | 3      |
| 4      | 4      |
| 5      | 5      |
| 6      | 6      |

If Bob wants to send the result of rolled dice A with a result of 4, he could
send 4 plucks, or the result of 12 (dice A + B), that would be 12 plucks. This
may seem OK up to a certain point, but as your numbers grew (max of 12 in this
example), it may be harder to understand the signal, so the message needs to be
sent slowly so the other end can understand. The **rate** (or capacity) is the
amount of time it takes for each plug to be sent, for example, say number 2 (2
plucks) takes an average of 2 second per pluck, so 4 seconds in total.
