+++
title = "Database"
author = ["Ben Mezger"]
date = 2020-06-21T03:24:00-03:00
slug = "database"
tags = ["database", "cs"]
type = "posts"
draft = false
bookCollapseSection = true
+++

## Backlinks {#backlinks}

-   [Postgres]({{< relref "2020-06-21--06-22-46Z--postgres" >}})
-   [Data and Reality: A Timeless Perspective on Perceiving and Managing Information in Our Imprecise World]({{< relref "2020-07-13--10-28-10Z--data_and_reality_a_timeless_perspective_on_perceiving_and_managing_information_in_our_imprecise_world" >}})

Notes from [Data and Reality: A Timeless Perspective on Perceiving and Managing
Information in Our Imprecise World]({{< relref "2020-07-13--10-28-10Z--data_and_reality_a_timeless_perspective_on_perceiving_and_managing_information_in_our_imprecise_world" >}})

William tries to approach data towards how we perceive the world. The following
key concepts can be considered in data modeling as to our inner domain.

1.  Existence: To what extend are you really present and engaged in the process of
    life around yourself? How real are the physical things around you?
2.  Identity: Who are you? What is the true nature that identifies you?
3.  Attributes: What kind of person are you? What are your values, assets and so
    on.
4.  Relationships: What are the qualities of your interactions with parents,
    friends, lovers, etc? What are your connection with things material, social,
    and otherwise? What are your needs? What are the issues and problems?
5.  Behavior: What should you plan to do in various situations? What might be
    the consequences, both indented and not indented?
6.  Modeling: How useful and accurate are the constructs you use to explain all
    these things? How effective are these kinds of explanation in helping you
    change what needs to be changed?
